Welcome to iOS Accessibility.
My name is Chris Fleizach.
I'm on the iOS Accessibility team,
and we have some really exciting
things to talk about today for iOS 5.0.
So what is accessibility?
Well, at Apple,
we think about accessibility as using
technology to create possibility.
So that means things like adding
closed captioning to videos,
allowing Braille displays to
completely control an interface.
allowing use of assisted input,
and of course, there's many,
many other examples.
Now, in this past year,
we have just been so overwhelmed by what
has gone on with accessibility on iOS.
And it's been really exciting to watch.
I'm proud to say that Apple has
been a part of that success,
but a lot of that success has become
because of hardware manufacturers
and software developers making
great products and great apps.
And through that combination,
iOS has become such an indispensable
tool for so many people.
So,
of all the things that we've come across,
I wanted to show you one example
of something that we thought was
especially cool that really gets to
the core of what we mean when we say
using technology to create possibility.
So, I'm going to show you a short
video before we start of Joshua A.
Mealy, who's a scientist at the
Smith-Kettlewell Research Institute,
and he's developed something
called the Wearer Braille.
Hey, I'm Josh Mealy.
I'm a scientist at Smith Kettlewell.
We're a research institute
in San Francisco,
and we do design and development of
accessible technology for blind people.
One of the things that we've
been working on is this thing
that we call the Wear Braille.
I'm wearing it on my hands right now.
This is just a prototype
with lots of wires and stuff.
But the Wear Braille is a new type
of technology that we're calling a
virtual wireless Braille keyboard.
What are on my fingers
are accelerometers.
They detect when I tap on the tabletop.
So what we can do is use the
accelerometers to detect taps,
and then we use a wireless connection
to send information to a smartphone
that tells the smartphone what Braille
characters and commands I've typed.
So let me just pause them for a second.
What they've done is develop a device.
That monitors where your
fingers tap on any surface,
and they can translate that
into Braille cording commands.
So not only are you allowed
to type on an iPhone,
but you can actually completely
control the iPhone device.
Basically, we just turned on VoiceOver,
the iPhone screen reader, turned that on,
and connected this device to it
as a wireless Braille device.
And we can do all of the
commands and text entry that we
want to using the Wear Braille.
And I'll show you how we do that.
So I can navigate around on my
screen with Braille commands.
I can go to the next.
Contacts.
Calendar.
Dictation.
Or I can go back.
Calendar, contacts, next bus.
So that's a pretty cool demo of just some
of the potential that iOS has that we're
really excited to see going forward.
So accessibility in iOS is
all about equal access through
alternative input and output.
So that means we have
solutions for low vision,
blindness, hearing impairments,
and motor and physical disabilities.
So a lot of these new settings
are where the other settings are.
In the Settings app,
you go to General Accessibility,
and now there's almost three
screens full of options.
As usual, we still have VoiceOver,
the best screen reader
for a mobile device.
System Zoom is great for
magnification purposes,
and Large Text is a godsend
for those of us who can't stand
the tiny text and messages.
But we've also added things
like speak selection,
so that you can go to any area in
the system that allows selection
and then have it spoken back to you.
We've added custom vibrations so
that someone can assign a specific
vibration pattern to a contact.
LED flash for alerts will flash the torch
on the back of the device when an alert
comes in if you're on the lock screen.
Great way to be notified
of something happening.
We've added a left/right
balance for stereo control.
Assistive Touch allows adaptive
hardware to be connected to an iOS
device to completely control it.
And there's an ability to route
incoming calls to a specific place.
So when you answer a phone call,
you can decide should it
automatically go to speakerphone
or to your Bluetooth headset.
So I wanted to give you a short
demo of a few of these features
because we think they're really cool,
and you may not have seen them yet.
So first up is Speak Selection.
So I've already enabled
Speak Selection in Settings,
General, Accessibility.
And you can set the
speaking rate there as well.
And then once I come to
something like Notes,
for example, I can select some text.
And there's now a speak bubble.
Once I speak, press that.
Comes with innovative new features that
make it easier for people with mobility,
hearing, vision,
and cognitive disabilities
to get the most-- Great.
So that just works.
But Speak Selection is a
little bit smarter than that.
Say you speak more than one language,
but you run in English all the time.
Speak Selection will
even be able to detect--
What language it should speak.
Formado por Desconcejales
del Partido Popieler,
nueve de bchicaxt,
uno del psoe y uno de actua.
Los o... Great.
So...
So next up is custom vibrations.
And the genesis for custom
vibrations is that if you're hearing,
you can assign a ringtone to a contact.
When that person calls,
you hear that ringtone, and you know,
I'm not going to pick up this call.
But if you're hearing impaired,
you don't get that same
level of granularity.
So we thought, how can we solve this?
Well,
we can add custom vibration patterns.
So once you enable this
feature in Accessibility,
you can go to Contacts.
And when you edit a contact,
there's now a section for vibration.
And there's some defaults
that you can select,
but what's really exciting is that
you can create your own pattern.
And all you have to do is
just start tapping here,
and the longer you hold down,
the longer the vibration.
The shorter that you hold down,
the shorter.
You can stop it.
You can even replay it if you want.
And then when you're ready, save it,
give it a name.
And now that vibration pattern
is going to be used whenever that
person calls you or FaceTimes you.
All right, so next up,
the last demo is AssistiveTouch.
And AssistiveTouch is something
that we're really excited about,
because we think it's going to
level the playing field for a
whole new group of users and
bring them into the iOS community.
So what I have here is a Dynamic Controls
DX2 control system with iPortal.
And this is what it
looks like in the field.
And so Dynamic Controls is the
world's leading manufacturer of
electronic controls for motorized
wheelchairs and scooters.
And they've been kind enough
to modify their iPortal system
to work with AssistiveTouch.
So let's see if this works.
So the first thing you'll notice is
that I now have a finger on the screen.
And the finger allows me to do
everything that I would want to do,
which is hover around and
wait until I touch something.
So for example,
I can go to Photos and press that.
with the button that I have,
open up photos,
and it's sending these exact same
touch events that will be generated
as if you actually touch the screen.
So that's pretty cool.
I can get around, I can touch.
But obviously that's not
going to get me too far,
so we need a way to drive
the rest of the iOS device.
And when we say complete control of iOS,
we mean complete control.
So I can bring up a menu and have access
to all the things that you can do if
you were physically holding this device.
So for example, I can go to Device.
I can press the volume up or volume down.
I can mute or unmute the device.
I can even rotate the screen to
whatever orientation I want to.
Likewise, you can press the home
button to get back out,
and the menu disappears automatically,
because you know after
you press the home button,
you're probably going to
want to do something else.
That covers a lot of interaction.
You can access all the
features of the device.
But we realize iOS is not
just about pressing buttons
and touching with one finger.
You also need a way to
do multi-finger gestures.
We have a gestures menu
where I can select,
for example, three fingers and get the
standard layout for three fingers.
And, for example,
if I do a three-finger double tap,
we all know that activates zoom.
So I can drive zoom with
this if I wanted to.
And so that's going to give me
access to sort of standard layout.
But we know that we can't possibly
predict all the variations that
apps come up with for gestures.
So there's a way for you
to add your own gesture.
And then once you do that,
it sort of populates this menu.
And we've added some ones
in automatically by default.
So Pinch allows you to
obviously pinch in and out.
And we'll have some other built-in
ones so that you can drive all the
standard gestures that you want to do.
So that is AssistiveTouch.
We think it's going to be really
powerful and enable a lot more
people to start using iOS.
So for the rest of the talk today,
it's mainly focused on
making your apps accessible.
And when we say make
your apps accessible,
what we're really talking about is make
sure your apps work well with voiceover.
And voiceover is sort of a unique
case because it requires the
participation of app developers
to make it a great experience.
There's system-wide accessibility
features like custom vibrations and
system zoom that work everywhere.
They don't really require
any other interaction.
But to make voiceover work well,
we need app developers to make sure
their apps work with voiceover.
So we're going to talk about how to use
the UI Accessibility API to do this by
looking at some of the basic attributes,
some of the new things we've added,
and some really cool API if
your app is of a specific kind.
And then finally, we're going to finish
with accessibility apps,
or apps that are designed for
users with specific needs.
Thanks.
So what is UI Accessibility?
How does it actually work?
Well, VoiceOver is running on the system,
and it needs to ask your app a question.
For example,
what is the element at this point?
So that VoiceOver can touch somewhere
and then find out what is there.
So to ask that question,
UI Accessibility gathers up the
relevant information from your app,
like what is the label,
what is the frame of this object,
and then sends that back to VoiceOver so
that VoiceOver can output it to your app.
So what is UI Accessibility?
How does it work?
Well, VoiceOver can also be
used to create a text,
and it can be used to create
text in an alternative manner.
And that means something like using
synthesized speech to speak it,
or maybe send it to a Braille
display to have it Brailled.
We can even draw a bounding
box on the screen so that you
can see where this element is.
So all of this really illustrates
this alternative input and output.
VoiceOver is all about driving the
interface in an alternative way so they
can output things in an alternative way.
So the good news about
adding accessibility to
your app is that it's easy.
A lot of it's going to come for free
if you use UIKit standard controls.
And most of the time,
you just have to add labels.
So the core of the
API is about attributes,
and attributes convey
information to VoiceOver.
VoiceOver can then transform that
into whatever means it needs to.
So for example,
say we have an image view,
we can set the accessibility label on
that image view so that VoiceOver knows
to speak Apple logo instead of just
speaking the image name or some other
random data that may not be appropriate.
So the two most important
attributes in Accessibility are
answer two fundamental questions.
Can VoiceOver touch this element,
or can VoiceOver use this element?
And how does VoiceOver speak
this element?
And they're answered with
isAccessibilityElement,
where you return yes if you want
VoiceOver to see this element,
and accessibilityLabel,
where you return a string that
adequately describes what this object is.
So with those two attributes,
two lines of code most of the time,
your app is going to
become 80% accessible.
There's some other
accessibility attributes.
I'm not going to cover them all,
but some other useful ones.
Accessibility hint,
an optional string that allows
you to provide a little bit more
information about what to do or
how to interact with an object.
And accessibility traits,
which define the role, the state,
the behavior of an object.
And accessibility traits are
a bit mask of integers so you
can combine them together.
So if we looked a little bit
further at accessibility traits,
say we took a screen like this, and
You have various things.
At the top, you might have static text.
Because this is an integer,
we can combine this with another
trait called the summary element,
which tells VoiceOver to speak
this automatically as soon
as you come into the screen.
For the image in the middle,
we can use the image trait.
For the button at the bottom,
we can say it's a button trait,
and we can also tell VoiceOver that
this starts a media session.
So that means when
VoiceOver presses this button,
it should stop talking because
something's going to happen.
And then finally,
the slider on the bottom
gets an adjustable trait,
which informs VoiceOver that they
can use this object by either
swiping up or down to alter it,
and they also know that it
interacts in a little bit
different way than other objects.
So where do we add accessibility?
Accessibility,
if you only need to change a few
static values and you have a nib,
well, it can be done in the Accessibility
Inspector panel in Xcode.
And you'll see that there's fields
to set isAccessibilityElement.
You can set the accessibility label.
You can set the accessibility hint there.
And then you can choose from the
smorgasbord of accessibility traits.
But if your app needs a little
bit more than Xcode provides
through Interface Builder,
well, we need to add stuff in code.
So if your accessibility
values don't really change,
they're just sort of
static and right there,
well, you can use the setters.
So for example, say we have a control
that's a play button.
It's a play button and never changes.
In that case, we set the isAccessibility
element to yes.
We set accessibility label to play,
and now it's accessible.
If your classes are a
little bit more dynamic,
so for example,
say we have a product view that changes
based on what kind of product it is,
well, in that case,
we can override the class methods
to return the appropriate values.
So return yes for isAccessibility
element so that VoiceOver can see it,
and then return the appropriate
accessibility label.
For example, depending on what we
know inside of the class,
we return the right information.
So accessibility attributes are
going to get us 90% of the way there
to make a great accessible app.
Sometimes you need to tell
VoiceOver when things happen,
though.
And this is where
notifications come into play.
So two ones that I want to point
out are used when things change,
basically.
So if only a few items change,
VoiceOver needs to update itself.
So for example,
say we have a table view cell,
and we press the edit button,
and there's a new item
in that table view cell.
Well,
the whole screen hasn't really changed.
It's just a few items.
We need to tell
VoiceOver to update itself.
We can do that with a
layout change notification.
We send that,
and VoiceOver will know to reset itself.
Now, when the whole screen changes,
that is a different cue
for a VoiceOver user.
And then when that happens,
say we select a different tab,
we need to post the screen
change notification.
And that will tell VoiceOver to
play a different sound,
reset itself, do enough stuff to let the
user know what's going on.
So we have an app here,
and let's just show what
this app looks like.
show it in the simulator,
get you a little sense of what
it is and what we have to do.
So we have an app here.
Basically a table view cell,
some buttons we can press.
When we select something, this comes up,
and we go back.
All right, great.
So we have the app running.
The goal of this demo is to show you,
you know, you have an app,
how do we make it accessible?
Well, the first thing is we need
to test it with VoiceOver.
So how am I going to do that?
Well, I'm going to exit this app.
I'm going to go to -- well,
I could go to settings,
and I won't for now.
But what I've done is I've
turned on the ability to enable
VoiceOver with triple click.
VoiceOver on.
So I've pressed the
Home button three times,
and that turns on VoiceOver.
It is a great tool if you're developing
and you want to test things quickly.
So, um... PhotoBove.
Let's take a look at this app.
Double tap to open page two of two.
Accessibility Basic.
So there's our app.
Double tap to open.
And all I've done so far is
just touch on the screen.
And if you're using VoiceOver,
first thing to remember,
you want to hear something, you touch it.
If you want to activate it,
you need to double tap.
Accessibility Basic.
So VoiceOver sort of alters all the
gestures that are normally used,
because we need to provide a safe
environment for the user to explore their
app without worrying about activating
something or doing something bad.
All right, so now we're set up,
and we're ready to test the
accessibility of this app.
So let's just start touching around.
Button.
Nothing there.
If I select this,
voiceover is still sort of
hanging out in the background.
It hasn't updated itself.
Empty list.
It's saying empty list.
I can't touch the icon.
Go back.
It doesn't tell me it's a button,
anything like that.
Still hanging out in the wrong place.
We're going to use our knowledge that
we have gained in the past five minutes
to make this into a very accessible app.
So what do we have to do?
Well,
let's first look at making those buttons
on the side say something appropriate.
So right now,
here we have our interface builder.
We'll open up the inspector panel.
And over here,
we see the Accessibility tab.
And there's no label there
because it's just an image,
so we'll need to add a label.
For example,
we can say these are iPad products.
Same goes for this one.
This one will be iPhone products.
All right, so now those have labels,
and that sort of covers what
we can do with Interface
Builder through accessibility.
For the rest of it,
we need to go into the code.
So let's also see if we can make
these table view cells accessible.
So conveniently,
there's a product table view cell,
and if we look at this one,
should become clear why
there's nothing spoken.
It's because we have a bunch of strings,
and then we draw at a
point those strings.
And that's a great way to
make your app inaccessible.
But we can overcome it by implementing--
I don't need to type this.
I can just copy and paste--
accessibility label.
So what I've done with the
accessibility label is take the
strings that I have that I know about
and concatenate them with commas.
That tells VoiceOver to
pause a little bit.
So I'll take string one, string two,
and then the product name,
and return that as accessibility label.
Now VoiceOver is going to speak that.
So what else did we want to do?
Well, there was a big product view
that had an image of something,
and that was not accessible either.
So there's a big product view class,
and inside of it,
we find out that there's an image view.
Well,
we can make that image view accessible so
that VoiceOver can touch it and speak it.
So let me do that by saying product image
view is accessibility element equals yes.
and set the accessibility
label to something like
large iPad or large iPhone.
So, that will take care of
the product view image.
Now, how about that go back button?
So, all it said was go back.
It didn't actually say it was a button.
So, making sure it's a button will
make sure that VoiceOver user
knows how to interact with it.
So, we can find where that label is.
And if I look in the view controller,
I see we have a UI control
with a bunch of things and
then a UI label inside of it.
Well, let's make that control
the accessibility element.
And we can do that.
by overriding his accessibility element,
the accessibility label,
and then set the accessibility
traits to the trait button.
So let's take a look at how this works.
Accessibility Basic.
Double tap to open.
And see what kind of damage
we've done with just adding a few
simple attributes here and there.
Accessibility Basic iPhone Products,
iPad Products, Button.
That's speaking.
Zero, Product Name, iPad, one,
Product Name.
So that's working.
Now if we go into it.
Large iPad.
Image.
Go back.
Button.
Great.
So with just a few lines of code,
we've turned this into something that
was completely non-understandable to
something that's pretty accessible.
So there's a few more things
that we want to do to make this
into a great accessible app.
One is we couldn't tell which
of the products was selected.
It just said "button" for both of them.
So we can use a trait
to define that behavior.
So inside of our view controller,
there is an updateSelectedTrait
method ready,
and I'm going to paste
in what I want here.
And I'm going to say my iPad button and
iPhone button have the button trait.
And then depending on which is selected,
I'm going to add the
selected trait to that.
So by adding that information in,
I'm using the OR operator
to combine those things.
We can know what is selected.
So finally, we need to make sure that
VoiceOver doesn't hang out in the wrong
place after it goes to a new screen.
And that's where we
use the notifications.
So, for example,
when we did select the row,
we should send a screen
change notification,
because when we select that row,
we sort of transition to a new view.
It's basically a new screen.
So I can post a notification
with the screen change.
And then finally, when we go back,
we also want to post a
screen change notification.
And I believe that
happens in remove overlay.
So I'll post that as well.
So let's give this one more run.
Accessibility Basic.
Double tap to open.
And see how we did using just these
basic accessibility attributes.
Selected.
iPad product.
iPhone products.
Selected.
Great.
So now it tells me which one is selected,
depending on that.
If I select a product name,
Large iPhone.
Image.
Great.
So VoiceOver saw that there
was a new screen change.
It automatically focused on the
new element and updated itself.
If I go back... Go back.
Button.
Three, product name.
It goes back and it realizes that it
came from a certain table view cell,
and it will go back to
that one automatically.
You're clapping because it's that easy.
That's how easy adding
accessibility is to your app.
But we want to take
UI accessibility beyond so that
you can use this for greatness.
So apps can obviously become
accessible with just a few attributes.
But if your controls go
beyond the basic controls,
you realize that you need
a little bit more power.
And if you've been making your
apps accessible up to now,
there's some scenarios that
have been difficult to achieve.
So we've added some new API in 5.0
that we think will address some of
these previously challenging problems.
So the first one is how do you
tell VoiceOver not to interact
with something that it shouldn't?
For example, you have some sort of
overlay that pops down.
VoiceOver still sees the
things behind that overlay.
And that's because VoiceOver gathers
all the elements on the screen and
just assumes that if they're visible,
that they should be interacted with.
So by using accessibility view as modal,
you can tell VoiceOver to ignore
everything outside of this view.
So say you have an alert that pops down.
It's a child of the window.
That view is modal.
VoiceOver will not interact with any
of the other children of that window.
The flip side of that is that you can
use accessibility elements are hidden.
And what that does,
it tells VoiceOver to ignore
everything in this subtree,
including the element,
so that VoiceOver won't interact with it.
So they're appropriate
in different situations.
They're both there.
Thank you.
We've also added Accessibility
Activation Point.
So when VoiceOver taps on an item,
it usually sends the tap point to
the exact center of that object.
And that is usually the best case,
but sometimes you have a control
that might have a big bounding
box and a little touch area.
You can control where VoiceOver touches
by using Accessibility Activation Point.
Finally,
Accessibly Perform Escape allows you
to implement in your app something
that's been in the system since 4.0.
So a voiceover user is able to take
two fingers and do a scrub gesture,
basically a horizontal back and
forth motion that is designed to
get them out of some sort of state.
So for example, it will hit the back
button in preferences.
It will escape out of alert.
So if you have some
sort of modal state up,
a voiceover user can know that
they can do a two-finger scrub,
and then they can get out of the state.
of this whatever state they're in.
So let's take a look at a
different app now that I've
designed just for this purpose.
It's called the Accessibility New app.
And let's give this a run on our iPad.
Accessibility Basic.
Double tap to open.
and do our accessibility audit
to see what we have to do.
Accessibility new.
Show grid.
Button.
All right,
obviously this is a very powerful app.
I spent a lot of time making it.
If I press this button,
So,
we didn't get very far with VoiceOver.
If I turn VoiceOver off,
I can show this thing and then show you
what actually is supposed to happen.
I can touch each one of these icons.
When I do that, a little X appears.
When I touch the X, it goes away.
And so on.
And then when I'm done with it,
I can touch out of
there and it goes away.
So obviously this app has been designed
to highlight the new API that we have.
So your mind should be churning
away at how we can make this app
accessible using some of this new API.
So the first thing we'll
want to do is make sure that
those icons were touchable.
Right now,
VoiceOver can't even get to them,
say anything about them.
So inside of Accessibility New,
there's a class called Grid Panel,
and here we have the controls
that are being created.
So we'll make them accessible.
by setting yes on accessibility element.
We'll set the accessibility label
to be the index that we have,
and we'll set that to be buttons.
All right, so that's all basic stuff.
Now, when that grid panel came down,
that's really a great case
for the view is modal.
The thing has come down.
You're not supposed to interact
with things behind it at this point.
You're only supposed to
be in this little panel.
So when we show this grid, I can say,
panel accessibility view is modal.
Tells VoiceOver to
stay within this panel.
So another thing we want to do
is when you tap on that icon,
a little X appears.
When you tap on the X, it goes away.
So how do we get that same behavior?
So this is basically the
same scenario as on the home
screen when you delete an app.
You can bring that up,
and the little X box appears.
And what VoiceOver does
in that case is say,
delete this app.
And when you tap on it,
VoiceOver touches the X button.
So to do that,
What we want to do is override
accessibility activation point.
[Transcript missing]
I'll go down to the bottom and say the
activation point of this selected icon
is the same as this little close button.
So it overrides that.
And it also changes a label.
So it tells the voiceover
user what's going on.
It changes the label to
say delete selected icon,
whatever it happens to be.
So the flip side of that is that
we'll also want to reset it,
and I already have that code.
So when something else gets selected,
we can reset the accessibility label,
and we can reset the other
information that's important there.
So the final thing that we want to
implement before we take a look at it
is how to get out of that modal panel.
That thing comes down,
VoiceOver could be stuck in
there if you can't get out of it.
So we can use the Perform Escape gesture,
or Perform Escape API,
so the VoiceOver user
can do their gesture and get out of it.
So I'm going to implement
Accessibility Perform Escape.
I'll call whatever needs to be called.
Panel should close in this example and
return yes to say that I handled it.
So with those few things using
the new Accessibility API,
we'll see if this app
is accessible or not.
VoiceOver Accessibility
New Show Grid Button.
All right.
: Icon 1, button.
Great.
So now when we press that,
VoiceOver automatically
moved into the grid.
: Icon 1, icon.
If I'm swiping with my
finger left to get out of it,
and all I hear is this sound,
that means-- : Icon.
That means I can't get out of it at all.
So that's-- our view is modal, working.
Now when I-- : Icon 6, button.
--double tap on an
item-- : Delete icon 6.
--it tells me delete icon 6 right away.
If I double tap again,
: Icon 1.
Button.
It will use that Accessibility
activation point to tap right
in that little icon instead,
and send it away.
: Icon 7.
Button.
And finally, how do I get out of it?
I can use this two-finger
horizontal motion.
: Show grid.
Button.
And it goes away automatically.
So a few new APIs.
They're obviously not as
intuitive as the basic APIs.
That's because we've now entered
the realm of handling complex apps.
And as developers make
their apps more complex,
the API needs to keep up with it.
I want to talk about some
app-specific API now.
So not every app will
need to implement this,
but if you have an app that
falls in this category,
it will make VoiceOver user
very happy that they can use it,
basically.
So the two ones that we have
API for are for content like iBooks.
So, for example,
VoiceOver works in iBooks.
And then for things that
have interactive elements.
So, for example, the Chinese keyboard.
Very interactive VoiceOver's model
of double tapping and selecting
really doesn't work well there.
So we've added something called
a content reading protocol.
So if your app is a magazine or a news
article or displays multi-page books,
anything like this that
has long-form content,
then you're able to implement this
API to get the same kind of behavior
that iBooks offers to VoiceOver users.
And what that means is that
VoiceOver will touch to
speak every single line,
so you can get very fine granularity.
It will automatically turn pages,
and you can continue
reading from any line,
and it will just keep reading
through the whole piece of content.
So we think this will be
really useful because obviously
there's a lot of magazine,
there's newsstand coming out,
and we're hoping that this
will solve VoiceOver's problem.
So how do we do this?
Well, we implement the UI Accessibility
Reading Content Protocol.
And then we have to... implement
four methods to return the data.
The first one is that we
return the page content.
So this provides the
whole content of the page.
So VoiceOver users can just get that
whole page content and then speak it.
Next, we want to return the
line number for a point.
So a voiceover user can touch
wherever they are and then
have that line spoken to them.
So that will give a line back.
And then you have to do
something with that line.
For example,
you need to provide the string for
that line with content for line number.
And then finally,
to make sure it looks correct,
we need to implement accessibility
frame for line number,
which returns the bounding
box of this specific line.
So that will take care of the content.
We also may want to make sure that
VoiceOver can automatically turn
pages as it moves through the content.
So for the content view,
you can return the trait,
"Trait causes page turn." And obviously,
that will tell VoiceOver to
cause a page turn.
How does it cause a page turn?
We need to implement something
called Accessibility Scroll.
And Accessibility Scroll came out in 4.3.
It allows your app to do whatever
it needs to do when a VoiceOver user
does a scrolling gesture.
And for those of you
familiar with VoiceOver know
that's a three-finger swipe,
left or right, up or down.
So if you handle Accessibility
Scroll Direction Next or
Scroll Direction Previous,
you can turn the page in that
case and automatically allow
VoiceOver to continue reading.
So I have a demo.
OK.
Accessibility Education Demo:
Learning to Write.
So I have a book here.
It was very challenging to write.
And with VoiceOver on,
Learning to write.
All I can get to is this header.
So we'll turn VoiceOver off.
VoiceOver off.
What else can this do?
I can swipe my finger to go to
the next page and keep going.
There's only three pages.
I can go back and so on.
So if we implement the right protocol,
VoiceOver is designed to make
this book experience accessible.
So inside of our project,
there is a book content view.
And this is where we want to
implement the UI Accessibility
Reading Content Protocol.
So we'll add that to our header.
And then inside of our class,
Well,
let's just look at how this is working.
So it looks like I pull out
a page out of our bundle,
and then I draw the rect by
drawing every line in that page.
So I separate it by new lines
and then just draw at a point.
So how do we make this accessible?
Well, the first thing we want to do
is return the page content.
So I can do that just by getting
whatever my data model is for that page.
Return that.
I trim the characters just so
VoiceOver doesn't pause unnecessarily
for new lines or other white space.
So that's the easy one.
Now we need to figure out
the line number for a point.
The point is going to come in,
and it's going to be in the
view space of your view.
So if your view starts
at 0 and goes to 500,
VoiceOver will send a point
that is between 0 and 500.
And it is up to you to figure
out what line is on that point.
So in this case,
I do that by taking the Y point
and dividing by the line height.
And that will give me the line.
And as long as that is within
the number of lines that I have,
I can return that line number.
So that will tell VoiceOver, yes,
I have a line.
Now we have to return what
kind of data is at that line.
So I'm going to start with
content for line number.
So I have all my lines,
and a line number comes in,
and all I have to do is return.
[Transcript missing]
Finally,
I need to implement the frame for it.
And this is the hard one.
So why is it hard?
It's because we need to return
a frame that VoiceOver can
display in screen coordinates.
So VoiceOver doesn't know that your
view starts at zero and goes to 500.
It doesn't know how to turn that into
something that can display screen wide.
So here's what we do.
We make the frame for
what this line should be.
So for example, I know it starts at five
at the X coordinate,
and then five at the Y coordinate,
and then I add the line
number times the line height,
and that gives me the right line.
And then I use this size with
font to figure out the size.
That's on NSString.
Easy enough.
So I have this bounding box,
and I now have this frame
with inside of my view.
How do I convert it to
the on-screen coordinates?
And here's a little bit of
code that I copy and paste.
I take the window,
convert the rec to the window,
and then convert from the window to nil.
And that gives me the
on-screen coordinates.
Easy enough once you have
that to cut and paste.
Let's take a look at how that works.
Accessibility.
This is an introduction page
that should be displayed first.
This book is about.
This is an introduction page
that should be displayed first.
This book is about teaching
students how to write a letter.
Great.
So obviously,
I can hear the content for a line.
The bounds are correct,
because I can touch around.
And the page content
is returned correctly,
because it spoke the whole page.
Now my only problem is,
how do I turn the page?
So with that,
we need to go back and look at
So, I'm going to start off by
implementing Accessibility
Scroll and returning the right trait.
So, first thing, I'm going to return the
trait causes page turn.
That will tell VoiceOver when
it gets to the end of content,
turn the page.
How do I turn the page?
I'm going to implement
Accessibility Scroll.
So for the direction next,
all I need to do is turn
the page in one direction,
and then I'll post a
page scroll notification.
And this allows VoiceOver to know, yes,
the page has turned.
I can handle direction previous as well.
I'll turn the page in
the other direction,
post the page scroll notification,
tells VoiceOver, page is scrolled.
Okay, so let's run that.
And then see if VoiceOver will scroll
the pages and read automatically.
- To write a letter.
- All right, so if I scroll with three
fingers left or right,
it should turn the pages.
- To write the letter, C,
first start at the top.
Now you know how to make the letter C.
There are also lowercase letters.
Great.
So I can turn the page
with three fingers swiping,
and notice it automatically
reads as I turn the page.
So that's the same behavior as iBooks.
It will read the next page automatically.
To write the letter.
This is an introduction.
To write a letter.
If I start reading.
To write the letter.
C.
First start at the top, then make.
It will continue turning that page
automatically when I start reading all.
So,
Great.
That is implementing the Accessibility
Reading Content Protocol to
turn long-form content into
a great accessible experience.
So next up is interactivity.
So as you know, VoiceOver intercepts all
gestures on the screen.
So it does this to provide a
safe environment for exploration.
But obviously,
that's going to cause a problem when
you have a very interactive element.
You can't double tap and then double
tap everywhere you want to go.
So we've come up with a solution
that's quite easy to implement,
but can provide a very unique and
dynamic experience for a VoiceOver user.
So here's what we have to do.
If you have a view like this-- and I'll
show you an example in a second-- all
you need to do is return Accessibility
trait allows direct interaction.
And for this view, the safety net of
VoiceOver will be lifted.
A VoiceOver user can switch between
exploring and interaction if they want,
so they can still discover what's there,
but they can also go right through that
safety net to interact with an object.
So now we know how to write the letter C,
in case you've been following
along on this book that I wrote.
The final page is...
Accessibility Education Demo.
Is this thing.
Learning to write.
And with VoiceOver on,
obviously nothing happens.
VoiceOver off.
But with VoiceOver off,
I can do things like-- and it will
tell me whether that's wrong or right.
Great.
So I can practice my C drawing.
So how do we make that experience
accessible for a voiceover user?
Obviously, this is a great case for the
direct interaction trait.
So there is a quiz view in the
Accessibility Education demo,
and inside of here,
we need to do a little bit of work.
to make sure that this is accessible.
So we'll make sure this is
an accessibility element
so VoiceOver can see it.
We will add an appropriate label.
In this case,
I'll call it the letter practice area.
We can add an accessibility hint.
Practice drawing the
letter C in this area.
And then we can finally add the
allows direct touch interaction.
So with those things,
now VoiceOver should be able to see it.
VoiceOver on.
Okay.
Letter practice area.
So now we have our letter practice area.
Practice drawing the
letter C in this area.
We can practice the
Letter practice area.
Practice drawing the
letter C in this area.
So I'm practicing.
It's working.
I have VoiceOver on.
It's saying the right thing.
There's only one more piece
to this puzzle that's missing.
We need to provide direct feedback when
[Transcript missing]
So whenever we determine whether
it's been a success or not,
we can post
inside of one of these methods,
and accessibility announcement
notification with the right
text that we want to speak.
And now, let's go ahead and start.
Once we've added that,
VoiceOver user will be able to
directly interact with an object.
[Transcript missing]
So that's all about our Accessibility
API that we've added in 5.0.
We think we're going to see a lot
of great apps come out of it now.
So there's one final topic
I want to touch upon,
and that is something that
we call Accessibility Apps.
So these are apps that are designed
to address a specific need,
and there's a growing market for these,
and they really make the iOS
platform a unique and indispensable
device for people with a disability.
So I want to point out two exemplary
apps that have just revolutionized
a lot of people's lives.
The first one is the
Looktel Money Reader app.
It's just a great app that you can
point at any denomination bill,
and it will tell you how much it is.
So you point at a $20 bill,
it tells you it's $20.
It's pretty simple.
For $1.99,
it's revolutionized this field where
you used to have to buy a device
that cost hundreds of dollars,
carry it around,
put your money through that to
figure out what you're looking at.
done with an iPhone app
now for less than $2.
The other app is ProLogo2Go,
and that's been designed to help
people with communication disabilities
put together phrases and sentences
that they need to speak and to
communicate with other people.
It's been a game changer
for children and adults.
It's a very powerful tool,
and I want to bring them both up
because I think they exhibit a lot of
innovation and thinking outside the box
for what is possible with an iOS device.
And I bring them up so that we can
stimulate your minds to start thinking,
how can I make an app that will
solve someone's needs in a way
that will transform their life?
So if you're making one
of these kinds of apps,
and it's for a VoiceOver user,
there's some useful API to know.
One you can know is VoiceOver running,
where the UI Accessibility
is VoiceOver running.
You can know where VoiceOver is
in your app by monitoring,
did become focused?
And then finally, as we saw,
you can use the announcement
notification to tell VoiceOver to speak
a specific string at a specific time.
So a few best practices to go over
when you're making your accessible app.
One, try to be concise and
short with your labels,
because a voiceover user has
to hear them an awful lot.
Don't include the type of
information in your label.
That is communicated with the trait.
No need to put the word "button"
in any label that you have.
And then finally,
if you're going to localize your app,
make sure to localize your labels
and accessibility information,
because VoiceOver speaks many languages.
So we've covered a lot of stuff today.
We have a lot of great features in
5.0 that we're really excited about.
So the takeaway, obviously,
add accessibility to your apps.
That's why you're all here.
It's going to increase your user base.
And if you're one of those kinds
of people who can't go to sleep
unless someone tells them what a
great human being you are every day,
you're going to get a lot of great
feedback from users telling you that your
app really works well with VoiceOver.
I also want to encourage you to think
about apps for users with specific needs.
I think there's a lot of innovation
in this field that we're really
excited to see what comes next,
and it really just warms the cockles
of my heart every time I see a
new one of these apps comes out.
So the rest of WWC is
all about accessibility.
We have two more sessions,
one in the afternoon where
there may be an appearance by
James Dempsey in the breakpoints.
There's a web accessibility and
automation session tomorrow morning that,
while early, is not early enough to be
an excuse not to attend.
And if you're looking
for more information,
there's a great voiceover manual
that will describe all the possible
gestures you can do with voiceover.
And there's programming guidelines.
There's just lots of stuff on the
web about people talking about
their experiences and so on,
so obviously not that hard to find.
So thank you for coming out today.
It's been a pleasure,
and hope to see you at the labs.